## Commenting and documenting in Python

Programs should be commented and documented at the same time. Documentation should be generated from comments.

You can check if your code conforms to the official PEP8 Python coding convention by invoking
"pep8 programName.py". If it doesn't, the console will tell you why, line by line.

### Docstrings

To document Python code use docstrings. Docstrings are marked with triple quotes and can be declared just
after function declaration. Docstrings are used to document functions, classes, methods and the package's
__init__.py file.

```python
def MyFunction(argument):
    """Documentation using docstring"""
```

Once a program has been documented with docstrings, it can be extracted and put into a .pdf or .html file.
A package called "sphinx" can generate documentation from docstrings.

### Setup Python sphinx

Check whether sphinx was installed correctly by typing "sphinx-build".
A sphinx documentation folder is generated by positioning the command line in the project's top folder and
typing "sphinx-quickstart". Answer the questions as follows:

```
Source: Brandon’s Sphinx Tutorial, SphinxHandout.pdf
$ sphinx-quickstart
Welcome to the Sphinx quickstart utility...
> Root path for the documentation [.]: doc
> Separate source and build directories (y/N) [n]:
> Name prefix for templates and static dir [_]:
> Project name: trianglelib
> Author name(s): Brandon
> Project version: 1.0
> Project release [1.0]:
> Project language [en]:
> Source file suffix [.rst]: .rst
> Name of your master document (without suffix) [index]: index
> Do you want to use the epub builder (y/N) [n]: n
> autodoc: automatically insert docstrings ... (y/N) [n]: y
> doctest: automatically test code snippets ... (y/N) [n]: y
> intersphinx: ... (y/N) [n]:
> todo: ... (y/N) [n]:
> coverage: ... (y/N) [n]:
> pngmath: ... (y/N) [n]:
> mathjax: ... (y/N) [n]: y
> ifconfig: ... (y/N) [n]:
> viewcode: include links to the source code ... (y/N) [n]: y
> githubpages: ... (y/n) [n]:
> Create Makefile? (Y/n) [y]: y
> Create Windows command file? (Y/n) [y]: y
```

Position the command line in the newly created folder and set sys.path.<some_path> to
sys.path.insert(0, os.path.abspath('..')). This will tell sphinx where the documented programs are located.

### Generating sphinx documentation

sphinx folder contains a conf.py file, _build folder and .rst files. In conf.py you can change:
- where your project is located by adding a path to sys.path
- documentation style by changing html_style
- any quickstart question answers.
_build folder stores all the generated documentation. .rst files are files that instructs sphinx how to
generate the documentation.
To generate an .html file, position the command line where the conf.py is and type "make html". This will
create a file in _build/html/index.html which you can view.
Generated sphinx documentation can always be erased by typing "make clean".

### Writing sphinx documentation

Sphinx generates documentation by executing all <file_name>.rst files. RST stands for reStructuredText and
it has its own syntax. The only .rst file in sphinx by default is index.rst. You can create more .rst files
at will. To make .rst files generate documentation link them to index.rst.
Link other .rst files to index.rst by adding the name of the new .rst file to the index.rst.

### RST and sphinx syntax

SphinxHandout details both, but the most important part is letting autodocs generate the documentation
from Python docstrings.

Demo source: 
https://github.com/brandon-rhodes/sphinx-tutorial

Video source:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QNHM7q2hLh8

Short manual:
https://pythonhosted.org/an_example_pypi_project/sphinx.html
